In this lesson, you will retrieve a grade based on a student ID.
There's something very special about the fact that our user defined repository is an interface, not
a class.
You'll remember that Spring Boot automatically creates an implementation of this interface which inherits
all of the predefined methods from the CRUD repository.
This implementation lives inside the spring container as a bean, and we're auto wiring this bean wherever
we want.
On top of these predefined operations, we can add our own queries to the repository as long as we follow
a very specific naming convention.
First you start with your action.
What are you trying to do?
In this case, we want to find by.
We want to find an existing record based on a set of criteria.
And then what follows is your field values.
Your field values must match the name of your columns.
So if I want to query a grade based on a student ID that it belongs to the convention and SQL, as you
can see, is to use underscore to separate two words.
But in Java you can match it with camel case and then obviously it would expect an ID value to be passed
in.
If you follow this naming convention spring, JP's query builder will take care of the rest, which
I think is very powerful.
All we have to do is define a method signature inside the interface.
And a spring boot automatically creates an implementation of your interface.
It's going to override this method and derive a query based on how it interprets your method signature.
So over here, inside of the grid repository, I'm going to define a custom query that can find a grade
based on a student ID.
The return type will be grade.
And then I will start with my prefix fine by.
Followed by what my query is based on.
In this case, I want to find a grade based on the student ID column.
So we're going to say find by student.
I'd.
And this custom query is going to attempt to find a grade based on whatever student ID we pass in.
All right.
Out of the box.
As Spring Boot creates an implementation of your interface, it will override this method and build
a query based on how it interprets your method signature.
Which is beautiful because now I can just finalize my service method.
I can go over to course service implementation and oh sorry, great service implementation and I can
say great repository dot find by student ID, student ID, and now I can go back to my grade controller.
And here I will say great service.
Dot get grade.
You can ignore the course ID for now.
We're not using it.
And that should be on.
I'm going to submit a grade for I guess I think this is her mining.
I'm going to copy this path.
What you put for the course doesn't really matter because our query is purely based on the student ID.
But anyways, let's copy the exact path over to read grade.
And we're going to try to find a grade based on a student ID of three.
Let's see if it works out.
And it gets her mini.
That is awesome.
Fined by student ID received an ID of three.
The grade repository was able to successfully query our table.
Returned a grade.
And over here we serialized whatever object was returned into JSON and the result was the following
a grade of A+ that belongs to her mini.